\begin{abstract}
In January and August of 2014, two unusual transient events were
observed in a strongly lensed galaxy at z=1.0054$\pm$0.0002.
Discovered by the FrontierSN team in Hubble Space Telescope (HST)
observations from the Hubble Frontier Fields (HFF) program, these
events are designated \spockone and \spocktwo, and collectively
nicknamed ``Spock''.  Both transient episodes were faster and fainter
than any of the broad class of supernova-like transients.  They both
rose to a peak absolute optical/ultraviolet luminosity of $M\sim-14$
mag ($10^{41}$ ergs/sec) in only $\sim$3 rest-frame days, and then
faded away below detectability in roughly the same amount of time.
These events appeared in two adjacent arcs of a strongly lensed galaxy
that is multiply-imaged into at least 3 distinct images by the
gravitational potential of the galaxy cluster \MACS0416 (z=0.396).
Using four independent lens models of this cluster, we find it is
entirely plausible that the two events are {\it spatially} coincident
on the source plane, but very unlikely that they were also {\it
  temporally} coincident.  We evaluate several physical models for
these events, and find that the least disfavored explanation is that
we have observed two distinct outbursts from a single extraordinary
recurrent nova.  This model would imply that the \spock system has the
fastest known recurrence timescale of any nova (3 to 5 months).
Furthermore, if our estimate for the gravitational lensing
magnification is correct, then \spock is about 2 orders of magnitude
more luminous than an average nova.  This then suggests that the
\spock system's primary star is a white dwarf very close to the
Chandrasekhar mass limit, and that it is drawing mass from the
secondary star at an extremely efficient rate ($>10^{-7}$ \Msun
yr$^{-1}$), making it a plausible Type Ia Supernova progenitor
candidate.  We conclude with suggestions for lens modeling and
observational tests that could help to clarify the nature of this
unusual transient.
\end{abstract}
  
  
  
  
  
